---
title: "25.10.4"
description: "Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.10.4 It is possible to upgrade from 25.10.3."
weight: 999990
---
Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.10.4.

## New Features

- The storage node addition tasks (creating partitions and internal devices) are now performed in parallel.
- The cluster statistics are moved from FoundationDB to Prometheus to increase performance and reduce the memory footprint.
- The command `sbctl` now supports the `--version` (`-v) flag to display the version.
- The command `sbctl storage-node configure` now supports the `--force` flag to format NVMe devices whwn they are already formatted.
- The command `sbctl storage-node add-node` now supports the `--cores-percentage` flag to configure the percentage of cores to be used by the storage node (required on Oracle Linux).
- The command `sbctl storage-node add-node` now supports the `--nvme-names` flag to specify the NVMe device names.
- The command `sbctl storage-node add-node` now supports the `--format-4k` flag to format the NVMe devices with 4K alignment.
- The command `sbctl storage-node add-node` now supports the `--calculate-hp-only` flag to calculate the minimum required huge pages.
- The commands `sbctl cluster create` and `sbctl cluster add` now support the `--client-data-nic` flag to specify the client data network interface.
- The command `sbctl storage-node` now has additional subcommands to list snapshots and volumes by storage node.

## Fixes

- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where remote objects weren't correctly removed from the node on receiving distrib events.
- Control Plane: Improved communication between the control plane and spdk-proxy to avoid race conditions.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of logical volume deletions when multiple delete requests arrive simultaneously.
- Control Plane: Improved firewall rules management.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where pip packages were installed on cluster update.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue with the calculation of total_mem for multi storage nodes on the same NUMA node.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of device connections when storage nodes connect or disconnect.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of the cluster migration tasks.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of the cluster health checks.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where core isolation wouldn't correctly work on some systems.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of primary and secondary leader changes.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where additional delete operations would interfere with an asynchronous delete operation already in progress.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where failed devices couldn't be added back to the cluster.
- Control Plane: Improved the reliability of the storage node status update process.
- Control Plane: Improved the graceful startup and shutdown of the storage plane. 
- Kubernetes: Fixed an issue where the wrong value was used to configure the hugepages.


## Upgrade Considerations

It is possible to upgrade from 25.10.3.

## Known Issues

Use of different erasure coding schemas per cluster is available but can cause io interrupt issues in some tests.
This feature is experimental and not GA.

