---
title: "25.7.1"
description: "Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.7.1 Simplyblock always seeks to provide a stable and strong release."
weight: 999998
---

Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.7.1.

## New Features

- General: Clarified deployment documentation.
- General: Added documentation for cluster expansion.
- General: Added documentation for storage node migration.
- Kubernetes: Improved the Helm Chart for simplified Kubernetes deployments.
- Kubernetes: Automated applying Core Isolation on Kubernetes worker nodes.
- Proxmox: Added support for quality of service settings.

## Fixes

- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where the storage utilization of a logical volume wasn't shown when the primary storage node was offline.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where the snapshot health status was shown as unhealthy while it was healthy.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where a client would fail to reconnect after a network outage due to a missing property in the configuration.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where the cluster would not be shown as `degraded` while a data migration operation is ongoing.
- Control Plane: Fixed an issue where it was possible to restart a storage node even if it was not in `offline` state.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue which caused a cluster suspension (hence I/O interruption) in case of a partial or full network outage.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue where a logical volume wasn't correctly deleted if the operation was issued as asynchronous.
- Storage Plane: Fixed a segfault on secondary nodes.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an error on the journal for large numbers of records.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an I/O leakage between primary and secondary storage nodes for certain I/O patterns.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue where rebalancing stopped early after cluster expansion, causing the cluster to become imbalanced.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue where a snapshot wasn't correctly re-registered after a failback.
- Storage Plane: Fixed a distrib error on network outages.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue where a storage node would get stuck in down state after a restart.
- Storage Plane: Fixed an issue where a checksum error could happen after failing back from a partial outage.
- Proxmox: Fixed an issue when adding additional storage pools.

## Important Changes

No changes in this release.

## Known Issues

Simplyblock always seeks to provide a stable and strong release. However, smaller known issues happen. Following up is
a list of known issues for the current simplyblock release.

- GCP: On GCP, multiple Local SSDs are connected as NVMe Namespace devices. Simplyblock recommends to use C4A-based ARM servers.
