---
title: "25.10.2"
description: "Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.10.2 and co-locate on workers with storage nodes."
weight: 999992
---
Simplyblock is happy to release the general availability release of Simplyblock 25.10.2.

## New Features

- Control Plane: The control plane can alternatively deploy into existing kubernetes clusters
  and co-locate on workers with storage nodes.
- Kubernetes Support Matrix: Added OpenShift starting from version 4.19.0
- OpenStack driver: OpenStack driver is now available. It has support for most optional features
  and is tested from OpenStack 25.1 (Epoxy). On request, older versions of OS may be supported.
- The required memory footprint on storage nodes has been reduced from 0.2% of storage capacity to 0.05% of storage capacity.
- Qos: Pool-level QoS feature has been added.
- QoS Service Classes: A new feature to assign a service class to a volume. Service classes 
  provide full performance isolation within the cluster.
- Support for flexible erasure coding schemas within a cluster.
- Support for RDMA fabric and mixed fabrics (RDMA, TCP)
- Some write performance improvements during first write to volume and node outage
- Support for namespace volumes. A single NVMe subsystem can expose up to 32 namespace volumes now

## Fixes

- Control Plane: Fixed a problem, which could lead to stuck deletes. 

## Upgrade Considerations

It is possible to upgrade from 25.7.6 and 25.7.7. It is possible to add rdma support for the fabric
during online upgrade.

## Known Issues

Use of different erasure coding schemas per cluster is available, but can cause io interrupt issues in some tests.
This feature is experimental and not GA.

